Electron microscopic reconstruction of functionally identified 
cells in a neural integrator.

Ashwin Vishwanathan,^{1}[footnote:
Corresponding author
]  Kayvon Daie,^{3} Alexandro D. Ramirez,^{3}
 Jeff W Lichtman, ^{4} Emre R.F. Aksay,^{3} and H. Sebastian 
Seung^{1,2}[footnote:
Corresponding author
]

^{1}Neuroscience Institute and ^{2}Computer Science Department
Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
^{3}Institute for Computational Biomedicine and
Department of Physiology and Biophysics, 
Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 10021.
^{4}Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Center for 
Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138.

Abstract

Neural integrators are involved in a variety of sensorimotor and 
cognitive behaviors. The oculomotor system contains a simple 
example, a hindbrain neural circuit that takes velocity signals 
as inputs, and temporally integrates them to control eye 
position. Here we investigated the structural underpinnings of 
temporal integration in the larval zebrafish by first identifying 
integrator neurons using two-photon calcium imaging and then 
reconstructing the same neurons through serial electron 
microscopic analysis. Integrator neurons were identified as those 
neurons with activities highly correlated with eye position 
during spontaneous eye movements. Three morphological classes of 
neurons were observed: ipsilaterally projecting neurons located 
medially, contralaterally projecting neurons located more 
laterally, and a population at the extreme lateral edge of the 
hindbrain for which we were not able to identify axons. Based on 
their somatic locations, we inferred that neurons with only 
ipsilaterally projecting axons are glutamatergic, whereas neurons 
with only contralaterally projecting axons are largely GABAergic. 
Dendritic and synaptic organization of the ipsilaterally 
projecting neurons suggest a broad sampling from inputs on the 
ipsilateral side. We also observed the first conclusive evidence 
of synapses between integrator neurons, which have long been 
hypothesized by recurrent network models of integration via 
positive feedback.

  Introduction

Combining two-photon calcium imaging with serial electron 
microscopy (EM) is an emerging approach for studying the 
structure and function of neural circuits at cellular resolution. 
In the mouse retina [9] and primary visual cortex [8, 36], this 
approach has been used to study the structure and function of 
visual neurons. Here we apply this approach to a population of 
neurons defined by their encoding of behavioral variables, rather 
than stimulus variables. Namely, we focus on neurons that carry a 
horizontal eye position signals that are located in a hindbrain 
neural circuit known as the "horizontal velocity-to-position 
neural integrator," or "neural integrator" for short [41, 26]. 
Our study is done in the larval zebrafish, which has emerged as 
an important model organism for investigating the relation 
between neural circuits and behavior [19].

The neural integrator gets its name because the transformation of 
eye velocity into eye position is the computational operation of 
integration with respect to time. Integrator neurons carry a 
horizontal eye position signal in their spiking during fixations, 
and lesion or inactivation of these cells lead to pronounced 
deficits in the ability to maintain gaze fixation [12, 14, 4]. 
Integrator neurons are thought to send their eye position signals 
to extraocular motor neurons through monosynaptic and 
polysynaptic pathways [5, 6, 42]. They are also thought to 
receive inputs from multiple convergent pathways that encode eye 
velocity for every type of eye movement [28, 44]. Therefore, the 
neural integrator is the “final common pathway” for all types of 
eye movements in fish [47, 1, 2], rodents [58], non-human 
primates [50, 49], and humans [37]. 

Most investigations of the structural underpinnings of neural 
integration in the oculomotor system have relied on combining 
single-neuron electrophysiology with light-microscopic dye fills. 
Intracellular recordings in goldfish hindbrain neurons that 
exhibited spiking correlated to eye position, followed by 
anatomical dye fills, show the axons of these neurons send 
collaterals to areas where other integrator neurons were observed 
[1]. Similar anatomical observations have been observed in cats [43]
 and nonhuman primates [55]. These observations have shaped 
theoretical models to propose that integration can be supported 
by positive feedback between these neurons [27, 52, 53, 18, 20]. 
More recently, calcium imaging approaches using two-photon 
microscopy to identify many integrator neurons have been coupled 
with sparse, targeted single neuron electroporation of 
fluorescent indicators for anatomical reconstruction [35]. All 
these studies have delineated the arborization and projection 
patterns of integrator neurons, but were limited to one or a few 
neurons in any individual brain and do not reveal locations and 
the distributions of their input and output synapses. 
Furthermore, although the axonal projections could indicate the 
presence of synapses onto dendrites of other integrator neurons, 
conclusive evidence has been lacking. 

We combined two-photon calcium imaging and serial electron 
microscopy to determine both function and structure of neurons 
throughout the oculomotor neural integrator. We found evidence 
for multiple classes of neurons within the integrator population 
based on differences in dendritic arborization, axonal 
projections and synaptic distributions. These included neurons at 
medial locations with ipsilaterally projecting axons that were 
inferred to be excitatory, and neurons at more lateral locations 
with contralaterally projecting axons that were inferred to be 
inhibitory. Furthermore, we identified the locations of all 
chemical synapses onto and from the imaged integrator population, 
and inferred from ultrastructural properties of vesicles that 
these synapses were of the conventional rather than peptidergic 
variety. Finally, we report evidence for direct synaptic 
connectivity between integrator neurons. 

  Results

  Combined two-photon and electron microscopy of integrator 
  neurons

To identify integrator neurons we performed two-photon light 
microscopy (LM) imaging of the caudal hindbrain in a 6 dpf larval 
zebrafish following bolus loading of the calcium sensor Oregon 
Green BAPTA 1-AM. The functional imaging was restricted to one 
side where the loading was best and was performed on three planes 
that were ~8μm apart during spontaneous eye movement. Calcium 
signals were correlated with eye position to identify integrator 
somata from the imaged planes (Fig. 1A) [45]. Neurons were 
identified as integrator neurons if saccade-triggered eye 
position following an ipsiversive saccade (Fig. 1A, b arrow) was 
correlated with saccade-triggered average fluorescence (Fig. 1A, 
c first column) (Pearson coefficient r>0.6). The integration time 
constants or the level of persistence was quantified as the time 
constant of an exponential fit to the firing rate profile 
determined from a deconvolution of the fluorescence data (Fig. 
1A, c, dotted line, STAR Methods). This resulted in the 
identification of 22 integrator neurons with graded levels of 
persistence (Fig. S1 A, B, C). 

Following functional identification of integrator neurons, the 
tissue was fixed, stained, sectioned for serial electron 
microscopy and imaged at a final resolution of 5x5x45 nm (RC, ML, 
DV). These images were montaged and aligned to create a 3D 
electron microscopy volume (EM) (Fig. 1B and Methods). The 
resulting EM volume extended ventrally from the Mauthner cell 
axon plane by \sim60μm, caudally from the border of rhombomere 
5/6 by \sim200μm and laterally from the midline by \sim100μm. The 
LM and EM volumes were registered to each other by an affine 
transform, producing correspondence of labeled neurons and blood 
vessels (Fig. 1C, Fig. S1 D, Methods). The somata of all 22 
integrator neurons from the LM volume were located in the EM 
volume, distributed throughout the caudal hindbrain and along the 
border between rhombomeres 6 and 7 (Fig. 1D, colored by time 
constants). 

  Stripe shaped patterning of somata in the hindbrain

Cell bodies in the hindbrain of the larval zebrafish follow a 
stereotypic stripe-like pattern of alternating cell bodies and 
neuropil. Cells within the same stripe typically share the same 
neurotransmitter identity, and morphology [23, 31, 32]. To 
extract this stripe-like organization, we projected the locations 
of all cell somata (Fig. 1D, 'o' symbol) from the high-resolution 
imaged area onto a single plane. The high-resolution EM volume 
contained a total of 2967 somata spread over rhombomeres 5 
through 8 (Fig. 1D). The volume also contained well-known 
landmarks like the Mauthner neuron [33], the axon of the 
contralateral Mauthner neuron, neurons MiD2 and MiD3 of the 
reticulo-spinal network [33], and a number of commissural bundles 
(Fig. 1D). This procedure revealed an alternating pattern of cell 
somata and neuropil. We were able to locate 3 peaks of cell 
somata, excluding a peak that corresponds to neurons at the 
midline, each corresponding to a likely stripe (Fig. 1D, bottom 
panel, S1-3). The three stripes were labeled based on their 
proximity to the midline, as medial (S1), intermediate (S2) and 
lateral stripe (S3) respectively. The medial most stripe S1 
aligns with a group of neurons that express the alx transcription 
factor and are predominantly glutamatergic [30, 31, 35]. The 
intermediate stripe S2 corresponds to neurons known to express 
the transcription factor dbx1b [31]. At the ventral locations 
explored here, integrator neurons in this stripe are almost 
exclusively GABAergic, while a small minority express glutamate[35]
 (more dorsally, this stripe is medially abutted by cells that 
express the engrailed-1 transcription factor which expresses 
glycine [30, 31]). The lateral most peak S3 of neurons 
corresponds with the expression of the barhl transcription 
factor, which is also thought to be glutamatergic [15, 31].

  Anatomical properties of integrator neurons

After the identification of the integrator neurons in the EM 
volume, we reconstructed all 22 integrator neurons and annotated 
the pre- and postsynaptic locations for these neurons (STAR 
Methods). We first describe some of the anatomical properties 
that were common to all integrator neurons. 

  Somata

The somatic locations of the 22 integrator neurons were 
distributed over ~23μm in the dorsoventral axis and along the 
entire rostrocaudal extent of the imaged volume. The somata of 
integrator neurons associated with S1 were located very close to 
the midline and close the rostral edge of the imaged volume, 
close to the border between rhombomeres 6 and 7. Somata 
associated with S2 were distributed along the entire 
rostro-caudal extent of the imaged volume. Finally, somata 
associated with S3 were located at the lateral end of the volume 
in rhombomere 8. The diameters of the integrator neurons were 
normally distributed, with a mean of 4.5\pm0.6μm (mean ± standard 
deviation). In general, the size of the somata was proportional 
to the persistence level of the neurons, with larger neurons 
exhibiting higher degree of persistence (Fig. S1 B (right), r=0.4
, p= 0.059). On average 3.3\pm1.5 neurites emerged from the 
somata, and traveled ventrally. 

  Synapses

We annotated 320 presynaptic (green circles, Fig. 2) and 2195 
postsynaptic sites (red circles, Fig. 2) on the 22 integrator 
neurons. Synapses were identified by the presence of a 
presynaptic vesicle pool and adjacent synaptic density. The 
synaptic density was mainly confined to the cleft. It extended 
into the intracellular space diffusely on the presynaptic side, 
and very little on the postsynaptic side (Fig. S2 E). Synapses 
from or onto integrator neurons contained small vesicles, 
presumably containing a conventional neurotransmitter. Elsewhere 
in the volume we did identify synapses with dense core vesicles, 
presumably containing a peptide neurotransmitter (Fig. S2 A). The 
conventional distinction between symmetric and asymmetric 
synapses did not seem relevant. Symmetric synapses are associated 
with many flat vesicles, but flat vesicles were uncommon at all 
synapses in our dataset. Asymmetric synapses exhibit a strong 
postsynaptic density, which was not observed here (Fig. S2 E).

• Integrator presynaptic sites

The presynaptic site was generally at a varicosity in the axon 
with vesicles throughout. A small, denser cluster of vesicles was 
typically observed immediately adjacent to the synaptic density. 
These features are consistent with the idea of a presynaptic 
active zone. The number of presynaptic sites on a neuron averaged 
57.6\pm45.3. This is an underestimate of the number of output 
synapses from an integrator neuron, because all axonal arbors 
were cut off by the borders of the volume. If statistics are 
restricted to the 3 longest neurons that were more complete than 
others, there were 82\pm49.3 presynaptic sites.

• Integrator postsynaptic sites

The number of postsynaptic sites on a neuron averaged 99.7\pm72.4
. This is a reasonable estimate of the number of input synapses 
to an integrator neuron, because most dendritic arbors were 
reconstructed in their entirety. 

• Cell Junctions

Along the somatic membrane, a darkening of the membrane 
interrupted by small gaps was often observed (Fig. S2 B). The 
darkening persisted over multiple serial sections, suggesting 
that it was not an artifact of tissue preparation or imaging. 
These darkenings were visible between somata of 
integrator-integrator and integrator-non-integrator neurons. We 
speculate that these darkenings are some kind of cell junction. 
Due to limited image resolution, we cannot ascertain whether 
these are gap junctions, which are known to exist in the 
developing larval zebrafish hindbrain [24]. 

  Dendrites

Dendrites were defined by the absence of presynaptic vesicles and 
the presence of postsynaptic densities. They typically extended 
from somata in the ventral direction. Dendrites were smooth 
rather than spiny. Some dendrites exited the imaged volume, 
leading to incompletely reconstructed neurons. Neurons with small 
dendritic arbors were completely reconstructed and did not have 
any dendrites that exited the imaged volume.

  Axons

Neurites with presynaptic vesicles were identified as axons. 
Regions of transition, from dendrite to axon, we termed axon 
initiation sites. Example axon initiation sites are indicated in 
Fig. 2, showing the dendrite (neurite with red postsynaptic 
sites) turning into axons at the axon initiation (open arrow). 
The main trunk of the axon extended rostrally and ventrally (Fig. 
2A, B). From the main trunk emerged mediolateral branches, which 
we will term collaterals (the number of collaterals we observed 
were similar to numbers with light microscopy, unpublished) . 

We observed sheaths around some axonal segments. In some 
locations, we saw that the sheath wrapped around the axon a few 
times, loosely enough that cytoplasmic space was visible (Fig. 
2A, EM panel). This fit the description of loose myelin [11], 
which differs from the more electron-dense compact myelin 
(elsewhere in the volume, data not shown). The axon of the neuron 
in Fig. 2A was intermittently loosely myelinated along its 
rostrocaudal section. Mediolateral collaterals emerged from the 
gaps in loose myelin, and remained unmyelinated. Such loose 
myelin sheaths have been previously reported in goldfish [51]. 

For 10/22 (45%) integrator neurons, neurites that cross the 
midline were identified as putative axons using several criteria. 
First, the putative axons were devoid of any postsynaptic sites 
on the ipsilateral side (Fig. 2B, D open arrow to end, no 
synapses). Second, before crossing the midline, the putative axon 
became engulfed by processes that appeared glial in nature (Fig. 
2C, D, EM inset, label G). The glial engulfment is consistent 
with the idea of “glial bridges” that are instrumental in the 
guidance of axons during development [7]. Third, these putative 
axons were thinner than the remaining neurites of the neuron. The 
diameter of these putative axons were smaller to the other 
neurites and were similar to the diameters of conventional axons 
(Fig. 3F). The mean axonal diameter was less than the mean 
dendrite diameter, conforming to the textbook notion that axons 
are thinner than dendrites. Putative axons could not be 
conclusively identified as axons because their presynaptic sites 
were presumably on the contralateral side of the brain, which was 
not included in the imaged volume.

  Small protuberances

A small fraction (~4% or 91/2195) of the postsynaptic sites were 
located on finger-like projections from dendrites that were 
enveloped by invaginations of axonal boutons (Fig. 2B, EM panel 
2). These projections resemble structures found across multiple 
species called spinules, and are thought to be present on large, 
active synapses [48]

We also observed a primary cilium on all 22 integrator neurons. 
Primary cilium are known to be present in most, if not all 
mammalian cells, including neurons, and are though to be 
important for normal development [21]. The average cilium was 
typically \sim4μm , is enriched with microtubules, and emerges 
from the neuron somata very close to the Golgi complex. In some 
cases, this primary cilium terminated inside processes that 
appeared glial (Sup. Fig. 2C). There was no strong orientation 
preference in cilia distribution (Sup. Fig. 2D).

  Axonal projection patterns of integrator neurons

The reconstructed integrator neurons were then divided into three 
groups based on the spatial projection patterns of the axons that 
were identified. Below we have detailed the properties of 
integrator neurons from each of these groups. 

Ipsilateral projection only (“ipsi-only”) - Six neurons located 
at the rostral edge of the volume, were observed to have only 
ipsilaterally projecting axons (Fig. 3A). Two representatives are 
shown in Figs. 2A and B. The axons were clearly identified by the 
presence of en passant boutons with presynaptic vesicles. The 
somata were located at the rostral extent of the volume, close to 
the midline (Fig. 3A, Ipsi. only). The axons were oriented along 
the rostro-caudal (RC) axis with the rostral end more ventral as 
compared to the caudal end. The average length of axons was \sim260
μm (see also, Table S1) with the longest reconstructed axon being 
463μm. Axons at the rostral extreme of the volume appeared to 
overlap with the expected location of the abducens motor nucleus 
(based on its known position within rhombomere r5, 6 Fig. S3 A ), 
with terminations in r4 as well. Two of the six axons had 
projections that terminate near the site of the abducens motor 
nuclei and project further rostrally (Fig. S3 B). None of the 
axons were observed emerging directly from the somata. Instead, 
dendrites bearing postsynaptic sites turned into axons with 
presynaptic sites, with the axon initiation site was on average 
located \sim99μm from the somata. Finally, all but one of the 
somatas were located medial to stripe S1. 

Neurons in this group had large dendritic arbors, with the 
dendrites arborizing over 22.5% of the total imaged volume (Fig. 
S4 A, B, C). The dendrites emerged laterally from somata and 
always extended ventrally. Only in one case the dendrites were 
observed to cross the midline, as indicated by the presence of 
postsynaptic sites confirming it as a dendrite (Fig. 3A, Ipsi. 
only, arrowheads). The average diameter of dendrites was 
significantly larger as compared to the diameter of the axons 
(Fig. 3F, p < 2x10[superscript:-3] , t-test).

Contralateral projection only (“contra-only”) - Nine neurons 
distributed over the full rostro-caudal extent, with the majority 
located at the caudal end of the imaged volume contained 
exclusively contralaterally projecting putative axons (Fig. 3A, 
Contra only). Like the axons in the ipsi-only group, the putative 
contralateral axons did not emerge as axons, but started as a 
neurite with postsynaptic sites, that became axonal. However, 
unlike the ipsi-only group, the axon initiation site was much 
closer to the somata. On average, the axon initiation site was 
located \sim22μm from the somata, which is significantly shorter 
than the axon initiation site for the ipsi-only group (p<0.0003, 
t-test). The somata of these neurons were located close to stripe 
S2.

The average dendritic length was \sim290μm (see also, Table S1), 
and the dendritic arbors of these neurons arborized over 8% of 
the total volume (Fig. S4 A, B, C). This was significantly 
smaller than the dendritic arbors of ipsi-only group (p<0.01, 
t-test). The average diameter of dendrites significantly larger 
than the diameter of the axons (Fig. 3F, p < 2x10[superscript:-6], t-test). The diameter of dendrites of the contra-only neurons 
was significantly smaller to the ipsi-only group (Fig. 3F, p<0.005,
 t-test). 

Projection unknown (“unknown”) - Seven neurons were located at 
the lateral most extent of the animal. For these neurons we did 
not find any neurites with presynaptic sites nor could we locate 
a putative axon (Fig. 3A, Unknown). We believe this is most 
likely because these neurons were not fully represented in the 
imaged volume and neurites of these neurons exit the volume 
before the axon was located. The average length of the dendrites 
for neurons from this group was \sim220μm (see also, Table S1), 
and they occupied on average ~4.9% of the total volume (Fig. S4 
A, B, C). 

Finally one neuron had axons with both ipsilateral and 
contralateral projections (Sup. Fig. 4D). This integrator neurons 
was located more lateral to the neurons from ipsi-only group. The 
ipsilaterally projecting axon resembled the axons of the 
ipsi-only group of neurons (Fig. 3A), with similar tilt in the 
rostro-caudal axis. This neuron contained a neurite that crossed 
the midline. We infer that this neurite is a putative 
contralaterally projecting axon based on the same cues that we 
use to identify other putative axons.

  Organization of integrator neuron synapses

Neurons from these three groups had on average, 170, 84 and 40 
postsynaptic (inputs) sites on their dendrites respectively (Fig. 
3B, red). The axons from the ipsi-only groups had approximately 
58 presynaptic (output) sites (Fig. 3B, green). The pathlength of 
each synaptic location from the somata revealed that the 
distribution of the postsynaptic sites along the dendrites among 
the Ipsi-only group was significantly different compared to the 
the contra-only and the unknown groups respectively (Fig. 3D, p = 
7.2x10[superscript:-13], p = 1.2x10[superscript:-10] KS test).

We further computed the synaptic density, the number of synapses 
per unit length for all neurons, with the assumption that the 
synapses within each group were uniformly distributed along 
dendrites. The uniformity assumption was made because the 
distributions of the locations of postsynapses was found to 
closely match the location of dendritic arbors (Fig. S4 E). We 
found the there were \sim1.5\times more input synapses on the 
ipsi-only group of neurons, as compared to the inputs on the 
contra-only group of neurons (ipsi-only group median number 0.42 
inputs per micron, contra-only group 0.26 input per micron, Fig. 
3C, p=0.049, Wilcoxon-rank test). Empirically the average 
intersynaptic distance for the ipsi-only, contra-only and unknown 
groups of neurons are 1\pm2.3μm and 1.2\pm1.6μm and 2.6\pm4.5μm 
with significantly different medians (Fig. 3E, p = 1.2x10[superscript:-10], p = 1.1x10[superscript:-18], p = 5.2x10[superscript:-10], Wilcoxon-rank test). 

  Planar organization of synaptic locations

The postsynaptic sites of the neurons from the ipsi-only and 
contra-only groups were observed to lie along orthogonal planes. 
The postsynaptic sites onto neurons from the ipsi-only group were 
noticed to lie roughly along a coronal plane with some tilt (Fig. 
3A). Similarly, the postsynaptic sites onto neurons from the 
contra-only neurons were noticed to exhibit some planar 
organization as well. Fitting a plane through all the 
postsynaptic sites revealed that these planes were nearly 
orthogonal (82.4^{\circ}) to each other (Fig. 4A). 

The dendritic arbors and postsynaptic sites of neurons in these 
two groups displayed an inversion in the stratification depths. 
The dendritic arbors of the ipsi-only neurons on average were 
most abundant at 41.66\pm9.3μm ventral to its somata (Fig. 4B, 
top - pink line). Whereas the contra-only group was maximal 
around 21.1\pm6.9μm ventral to its somata (Fig. 4B, bottom - 
orange line). The number of postsynaptic sites closely followed 
this inversion. Although relative to the bottom of the cranium, 
because many of the contra-only cells are more caudal and the 
brain is shallower, the depth profile may not be that different 
when viewed from a different origin.

Interestingly, when we overlaid the stripe patterns computed 
previously in Fig. 1D with the stratification profiles of 
thesynaptic sites along the medio-lateral axis, we found that the 
post and presynaptic sites of the ipsi-only group was located 
medial to stripe S1 and lateral to S2 , whereas the postsynaptic 
sites of the contra-only group were located very close the 
intermediate stripe S2. Similar organization was observed for the 
other group of neurons (Fig. S4 F).

  Connectivity between integrator neurons

We also examined the patterns of connectivity between integrator 
neurons. We found 6 synapses between integrator neurons. Two 
synapses made by one ipsi-only neuron onto another ipsi-only 
neuron, and 4 synapses onto three contra-only neurons (Fig. 4C). 
We found that there exists varying amounts of overlap of the 
axons of the ipsilaterally projecting neurons (Fig. S4 H) with 
the dendrites of all other neurons in the volume. Specifically, 
the overlap at ventro-rostral locations were from axons of 
ipsi-only neurons onto dendrites of other ipsi-only neurons (Fig. 
S4 H, Ipsi–>Ipsi). Whereas, the overlap at dorso-caudal locations 
were from axons of ipsi-only neurons onto dendrites of 
contra-only and unknown group of neurons (Fig. S4 H, 
Ipsi–>Contra, Ipsi->unknown). 

  Discussion

We combined two-photon calcium imaging of neurons in the larval 
zebrafish that were encoding for a behavioral variable 
(eye-position) with serial section electron microscopy. This was 
done by registering the light microscopic volume to the electron 
microscopic volume to locate the same neurons. We were able to 
analyze in one animal 22 integrator neurons for which we had both 
functional and structural information. This procedure revealed 
the existence of distinct groups of neurons that make up the 
integrator circuit. This included an excitatory, ipsilaterally 
projecting group, an inhibitory, contralaterally projecting group 
and, a third, excitatory group with unknown projections. Finally 
we provide the first conclusive evidence for synapses between 
integrator neurons. 

Of the 22 integrator neurons, six had exclusively ipsilaterally 
projecting axons. This population was most closely associated 
with the first somata stripe S1, which is thought to contain 
mostly excitatory, glutamatergic neurons [34]. The majority of 
synapses onto the dendrites of these neurons were along a plane 
approximately normal to the rostro-caudal (RC) axis, whereas the 
axonal boutons of these neurons were oriented along the RC axis. 
This is reflected in the approximately orthogonal organization of 
the pre and postsynaptic sites onto these neurons (Fig. S4 G). 
This suggests that these neurons are setup to sample broadly from 
axons that are oriented along the RC axis, including those from 
other integrator neurons. It has long been theorized that 
positive feedback via recurrent excitation could be a possible 
mechanism that can explain long persistent time scales of 
neuronal activity [53, 18, 25]. Indeed, we observed conclusive 
chemical synapses from one ipsilataterally projecting integrator 
neuron onto another ipsilaterally projecting integrator neuron. 
These facts point to the ipsi group of neurons as a candidate 
that could support positive feedback over recurrent excitation in 
the integrator circuit. 

The second major group of neurons that we reconstructed were the 
nine contralaterally projecting neurons. The somatic locations of 
these neurons was most closely associated with the intermediate 
somal stripe S2, a grouping composed largely of GABAergic neurons 
at the dorso-ventral depth investigated here [34]. The dendrites 
of these neurons arborized over a smaller area, and stratified 
more dorsally as compared to the ipsilaterall projecting group of 
neurons. The postsynaptic inputs on the dendrites of these cells 
were along a plane that contained the RC axis. This suggests that 
these neurons sample narrowly from inputs along the RC axis. 
Inputs along the ML axis, however, would be sampled more broadly 
by these neurons. In the goldfish oculomotor integrator, 
contralaterally projecting neurons are thought to be involved in 
coordinating activity between the two sides, where each side acts 
as an independent integrator [4, 17]. Although, we have not 
reconstructed the contralateral side of the axons, evidence from 
light microscopic images of contralaterally projecting neurons 
shows projections that terminate in the dendritic field of the 
opposing population of inhibitory integrator neurons [35]. 

The majority of the remaining integrator neurons were located at 
the lateral edge of the animal corresponding to the lateral most 
stripe S3, where neurons are predominantly glutamatergic [31]. 
Since these neurons are close to the edge of the imaged volume, 
in all cases, we were unable to trace many neurites from these 
cells; hence, the axonal projection pattern remains unknown. We 
also found one neuron, located along stripe 2, that had both an 
ipsilateral axon and contralaterally projecting putative axon. 
The potential role of these neurons remains unknown. 

The ipsilaterally projecting and the contralaterally projecting 
neurons differ in a number of properties. They have significantly 
different dendritic morphologies, axonal projections, and 
distributions of postsynaptic sites along their dendrites. The 
ipsi-only group of neurons had approximately twice as many 
postsynaptic input sites as the contra-only only group. In both 
cases, initiation of the axons was from a neurite that contained 
postsynaptic sites that then gave rise to presynaptic sites. This 
feature could be important to influence the activity of neurons 
as these locations are proximal to the somata. For example 
inhibitory synapses at such locations could have a shunting 
effect on the postsynaptic neuron. The integration time constants 
of these neurons show graded levels of persistent activity. Time 
constants of contralaterally projecting neurons were 
significantly different from the unknown projecting neurons, with 
the unknown projecting neurons showing faster dynamics (Fig. S1 
D). 

Our sample of 22 reconstructed integrator neurons is a fraction 
of the roughly 100 integrator neurons estimated to exist on one 
side of the larval zebrafish brain [3]. We observed 6 chemical 
synapses from two ipsilaterally projecting integrator neurons 
onto other integrator neurons. This observation may be an 
underestimate of integrator connectivity, for a few reasons. 
First, there are many neurons in the imaged volume that carried 
no usable fluorescence signal at all, largely because they did 
not take up enough calcium indicator. Some of these neurons are 
likely to be integrator neurons overlooked by our study, and are 
potential postsynaptic partners of the reconstructed neurons in 
our sample. Second, the imaged volume was limited in the 
dorso-ventral extent. Thus there were likely integrator neurons 
outside the imaged volume, and they could receive synapses from 
our reconstructed integrator neurons. Furthermore, only three 
axonal arbors were fully or mostly reconstructed; the rest 
appeared substantially cut off as their axons left the volume, 
this is also evidenced by the fact that only two of the six 
ipsilaterally projecting axons project to the abducens motor 
nuclei, contrary to dye fill experiments, where all ipsilateral 
axons project to the abducens. Third, we had no possibility of 
finding connections between neurons on opposite sides of the 
brain, because only one side of the brain was imaged. Therefore, 
it is difficult to know whether the two neurons that made 
synapses onto other integrator neurons are an exceptional case, 
or representative of a larger population that was incompletely 
sampled.

Here we presented ultrastructural anatomical details of different 
types of integrator neurons and evidence of synaptic connectivity 
between these neurons and present an approach that can be used to 
uncover general rules of connectivity and validate hypothesized 
theories of temporal integration. More definitive information 
about precise connectivity patterns between integrator neurons 
awaits a future experiment with an imaged volume that is large 
enough to encompass all integrator neurons, and a fluorescent 
calcium indicator that labels a higher percentage of integrator 
neurons. Nonetheless, our findings to date can already be used to 
guide models of temporal integration with constraints in the 
form, density, and geometry of interactions between integrator 
neurons.

  Author contributions

Conceptualization, Methodology, and Writing: A.V, E. A., and 
H.S.S. Formal Analysis: A.V. and H.S.S. Data Curation: A.V. 
Visualization: A.V. Investigation: K.D performed two-photon 
calcium imaging. A.V. acquired serial section EM images with 
assistance from J.W.L., and assembled the resulting image stack. 
K.D, A.R. registered the calcium images with the EM images. A.V. 
and E. A. reconstructed neurons with help from A.R. Funding 
Acquisition: E.A. and H.S.S. 

  Acknowledgments

We are grateful to Juan Carlos Tapia, Richard Schalek and Ken 
Hayworth for assisting us with tissue preparation, the ATUM 
serial sectioning procedure, and the WaferMapper software for EM 
imaging. Stephan Saalfeld, Albert Cardona, and Ignacio 
Arganda-Carreras answered questions about the TrakEM2 plugin for 
FIJI/ImageJ. Uygar Sümbül assisted with importing skeletons into 
MATLAB. We thank Jim Hudspeth for sharing reagents and tissue 
processing protocols, Heather Sullivan for tissue processing and 
optimization, Ashleigh Showler, Gurion Marks and Anjin Xianyu for 
assistance with reconstructions and alignment, and Melanie Lee 
for sharing light microscopic images of neurons. We benefited 
from helpful discussions with Jim Hudspeth, David Tank and Kanaka 
Rajan. KD acknowledges the support of NIH Training grant 
EY007138-16. EA acknowledges funding from the Burroughs Wellcome 
Career Award at the Scientific Interface, the Searle Scholars 
program, the Simons Collaboration on the Global Brain, NSF CRCNS 
grant 1208088, and NIH grant R01027036. HSS acknowledges funding 
from the Mathers Foundation, Gatsby Foundation, Human Frontier 
Science Program, NIH/NINDS award 5R01NS076467, and ARO MURI award 
W911NF-12-1-0594.




References

[1] Aksay, E and Baker, R and Seung, H S and Tank, D W, "Anatomy and Discharge Properties of Pre-Motor Neurons in the Goldfish Medulla That Have Eye-Position Signals During Fixations", Journal of Neurophysiology  84, 2 (2000), pp. 1035--1049.

[2] Aksay, E and Gamkrelidze, G and Seung, H S and Baker, R and Tank, D W, "In vivo intracellular recording and perturbation of persistent activity in a neural integrator.", Nature Neuroscience  4, 2 (2001), pp. 184--193.

[3] Aksay, Emre and Baker, Robert and Seung, H Sebastian and Tank, David W, "Correlated discharge among cell pairs within the oculomotor horizontal velocity-to-position integrator.", The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience  23, 34 (2003), pp. 10852--10858.

[4] Aksay, Emre and Olasagasti, Itsaso and Mensh, Brett D and Baker, Robert and Goldman, Mark S and Tank, David W, "Functional dissection of circuitry in a neural integrator", Nature Neuroscience  10, 4 (2007), pp. 494--504.

[5] Baker, R and Berthoz, A and Delgado-Garcia, J, "Monosynaptic excitation of trochlear motoneurons following electrical stimulation of the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus.", Brain research  121, 1 (1977), pp. 157--161.

[6] Baker, R and Delgado-Garcia, J and Alley, K, Morphological and physiological demonstration that prepositus hypoglossi neurons terminate on medial rectus motoneurons (Proc Int Union Physiol Sci, 1977).

[7] Barresi, Michael J F and Hutson, Lara D and Chien, Chi-Bin and Karlstrom, Rolf O, "Hedgehog regulated Slit expression determines commissure and glial cell position in the zebrafish forebrain.", Development (Cambridge, England)  132, 16 (2005), pp. 3643--3656.

[8] Bock, Davi D and Lee, Wei-Chung Allen and Kerlin, Aaron M and Andermann, Mark L and Hood, Greg and Wetzel, Arthur W and Yurgens…, "Network anatomy and in vivo physiology of visual cortical neurons.", Nature  471, 7337 (2011), pp. 177--182.

[9] Briggman, Kevin L and Helmstaedter, Moritz and Denk, Winfried, "Wiring specificity in the direction-selectivity circuit of the retina", Nature  471, 7337 (2011), pp. 183--188.

[10] Brustein, E and Marandi, N and Kovalchuk, Y and Drapeau, P and Konnerth, A, ""In vivo" monitoring of neuronal network activity in zebrafish by two-photon Ca2+ imaging", Pflügers Archiv  446, 6 (2003), pp. 766--773.

[11] Caley, D W and Butler, A B, "Formation of central and peripheral myelin sheaths in the rat: an electron microscopic study.", The American journal of anatomy  140, 3 (1974), pp. 339--347.

[12] Cannon, S C and Robinson, D A, "Loss of the neural integrator of the oculomotor system from brain stem lesions in monkey", Journal of Neurophysiology  57, 5 (1987), pp. 1383--1409.

[13] Cardona, Albert and Saalfeld, Stephan and Schindelin, Johannes and Arganda-Carreras, Ignacio and Preibisch, Stephan and Longair…, "TrakEM2 software for neural circuit reconstruction.", PLoS ONE  7, 6 (2012), pp. e38011.

[14] Chéron, G and Godaux, E, "Disabling of the oculomotor neural integrator by kainic acid injections in the prepositus-vestibular complex of the cat.", The Journal of physiology  394, 1 (1987), pp. 267--290.

[15] Colombo, Alicia and Reig, Germán and Mione, Marina and Concha, Miguel L, "Zebrafish BarH-like genes define discrete neural domains in the early embryo", Gene Expression Patterns  6, 4 (2006), pp. 347--352.

[16] Daie, Kayvon and Goldman, Mark S and Aksay, Emre R F, "Spatial patterns of persistent neural activity vary with the behavioral context of short-term memory.", Neuron  85, 4 (2015), pp. 847--860.

[17] Debowy, Owen and Baker, Robert, "Encoding of eye position in the goldfish horizontal oculomotor neural integrator.", Journal of Neurophysiology  105, 2 (2011), pp. 896--909.

[18] Fisher, D and Olasagasti, I and Tank, D W and Aksay, E R F and Goldman, M S, "A modeling framework for deriving the structural and functional architecture of a short-term memory microcircuit", Neuron  79, 5 (2013), pp. 987--1000.

[19] Friedrich, Rainer W and Jacobson, Gilad A and Zhu, Peixin, "Circuit Neuroscience in Zebrafish", Current Biology  20, 8 (2010), pp. R371--R381.

[20] Goņcalves, P J and Arrenberg, A B and Hablitzel, B and Baier, H and Machens, C K, "Optogenetic perturbations reveal the dynamics of an oculomotor integrator", Frontiers in Neural Circuits  8 (2014).

[21] Guemez-Gamboa, Alicia and Coufal, Nicole G and Gleeson, Joseph G, "Primary cilia in the developing and mature brain.", Neuron  82, 3 (2014), pp. 511--521.

[22] Hayworth, Kenneth J and Morgan, Josh L and Schalek, Richard and Berger, Daniel R and Hildebrand, David G C and Lichtman, Jeff W, "Imaging ATUM ultrathin section libraries with WaferMapper: a multi-scale approach to EM reconstruction of neural circuits", Frontiers in Neural Circuits  8 (2014), pp. 68.

[23] Higashijima, Shin-Ichi and Mandel, Gail and Fetcho, Joseph R, "Distribution of prospective glutamatergic, glycinergic, and GABAergic neurons in embryonic and larval zebrafish.", The Journal of comparative neurology  480, 1 (2004), pp. 1--18.

[24] Jabeen, Shaista and Thirumalai, Vatsala, "Distribution of the gap junction protein connexin 35 in the central nervous system of developing zebrafish larvae.", Frontiers in Neural Circuits  7 (2013), pp. 91.

[25] Joshua, Mati and Medina, Javier F and Lisberger, Stephen G, "Diversity of Neural Responses in the Brainstem during Smooth Pursuit Eye Movements Constrains the Circuit Mechanisms of Neural…", The journal of neuroscience  33, 15 (2013), pp. 6633--6647.

[26] Joshua, M and Lisberger, S G, "A tale of two species: Neural integration in zebrafish and monkeys", NEUROSCIENCE  296 (2015), pp. 80--91.

[27] Kamath, B Yeshwant and Keller, Edward L, "A neurological integrator for the oculomotor control system", Mathematical Biosciences  30, 3-4 (1976), pp. 341--352.

[28] Kaneko, C R, "Eye movement deficits following ibotenic acid lesions of the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi in monkeys II. Pursuit, vestibular,…", Journal of Neurophysiology  81, 2 (1999), pp. 668--681.

[29] Kasthuri, Narayanan and Hayworth, Kenneth Jeffrey and Berger, Daniel Raimund and Schalek, Richard Lee and Conchello, José A…, "Saturated Reconstruction of a Volume of Neocortex", Cell  162, 3 (2015), pp. 648--661.

[30] Kimura, Yukiko and Okamura, Yasushi and Higashijima, Shin-Ichi, "alx, a zebrafish homolog of Chx10, marks ipsilateral descending excitatory interneurons that participate in the regulation of …", The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience  26, 21 (2006), pp. 5684--5697.

[31] Kinkhabwala, Amina and Riley, Michael and Koyama, Minoru and Monen, Joost and Satou, Chie and Kimura, Yukiko and Higashijima, S…, "A structural and functional ground plan for neurons in the hindbrain of zebrafish.", Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America  108, 3 (2011), pp. 1164--1169.

[32] Koyama, Minoru and Kinkhabwala, Amina and Satou, Chie and Higashijima, Shin-Ichi and Fetcho, Joseph, "Mapping a sensory-motor network onto a structural and functional ground plan in the hindbrain.", Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America  108, 3 (2011), pp. 1170--1175.

[33] Lee, R K and Eaton, R C and Zottoli, S j, "Segmental arrangement of reticulospinal neurons in the goldfish hindbrain.", The Journal of comparative neurology  329, 4 (1993), pp. 539--556.

[34] Lee, M M and Arrenberg, A B and Aksay, E R F, "A Structural and Genotypic Scaffold Underlying Temporal Integration", Journal of Neuroscience  35, 20 (2015), pp. 7903--7920.

[35] Lee, Melanie M and Arrenberg, Aristides B and Aksay, Emre R F, "A Structural and Genotypic Scaffold Underlying Temporal Integration", The journal of neuroscience  35, 20 (2015), pp. 7903--7920.

[36] Lee, WCA and Bonin, V and Reed, M and Graham, B J and Hood, G, "Anatomy and function of an excitatory network in the visual cortex", Nature  532 (2016).

[37] Leigh, R John and Zee, David S, The Neurology of Eye Movements (Oxford University Press, USA, 2015).

[38] Lister, J A and Robertson, C P and Lepage, T and Johnson, S L and Raible, D W, "nacre encodes a zebrafish microphthalmia-related protein that regulates neural-crest-derived pigment cell fate.", Development (Cambridge, England)  126, 17 (1999), pp. 3757--3767.

[39] Longair, Mark H and Baker, Dean A and Armstrong, J Douglas, "Simple Neurite Tracer: open source software for reconstruction, visualization and analysis of neuronal processes", Bioinformatics  27, 17 (2011), pp. 2453--2454.

[40] Ma, Leung-Hang and Grove, Charlotte L and Baker, Robert, "Development of oculomotor circuitry independent of hox3 genes.", Nature Communications  5 (2014), pp. 4221.

[41] Major, Guy and Tank, David, "Persistent neural activity: prevalence and mechanisms", Current Opinion in Neurobiology  14, 6 (2004), pp. 675--684.

[42] McCrea, R A and Baker, R and Delgado-Garcia, J, "Afferent and efferent organization of the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus.", Progress in brain research  50 (1979), pp. 653--665.

[43] McCrea, R A and Baker, R, "Cytology and intrinsic organization of the perihypoglossal nuclei in the cat.", The Journal of comparative neurology  237, 3 (1985), pp. 360--376.

[44] McFarland, J L and Fuchs, A F, "Discharge patterns in nucleus prepositus hypoglossi and adjacent medial vestibular nucleus during horizontal eye movement in b…", Journal of Neurophysiology  68, 1 (1992), pp. 319--332.

[45] Miri, Andrew and Daie, Kayvon and Burdine, Rebecca D and Aksay, Emre and Tank, David W, "Regression-Based Identification of Behavior-Encoding Neurons During Large-Scale Optical Imaging of Neural Activity at Cellular…", Journal of Neurophysiology  105, 2 (2011), pp. 964--980.

[46] Miri, Andrew and Daie, Kayvon and Arrenberg, Aristides B and Baier, Herwig and Aksay, Emre and Tank, David W, "Spatial gradients and multidimensional dynamics in a neural integrator circuit", Nature Neuroscience  14, 9 (2011), pp. 1150--1159.

[47] Pastor, A M and De la Cruz, R R and Baker, R, "Eye position and eye velocity integrators reside in separate brainstem nuclei.", Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences  91, 2 (1994), pp. 807--811.

[48] Petralia, Ronald S and Wang, Ya-Xian and Mattson, Mark P and Yao, Pamela J, "Structure, Distribution, and Function of Neuronal/Synaptic Spinules and Related Invaginating Projections", NeuroMolecular Medicine  17, 3 (2015), pp. 211--240.

[49] Robinson, D A, "Oculomotor unit behavior in the monkey.", Journal of Neurophysiology  33, 3 (1970), pp. 393--403.

[50] Robinson, D A, "Integrating with neurons", Annual review of neuroscience  12 (1989).

[51] Rosenbluth, J and Palay, S L, "The fine structure of nerve cell bodies and their myelin sheaths in the eighth nerve ganglion of the goldfish", The Journal of Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology  9 (1961).

[52] Seung, H S, "How the brain keeps the eyes still", Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  93, 23 (1996), pp. 13339--13344.

[53] Seung, H Sebastian and Lee, Daniel D and Reis, Ben Y and Tank, David W, "Stability of the Memory of Eye Position in a Recurrent Network of Conductance-Based Model Neurons", Neuron  26, 1 (2000), pp. 259--271.

[54] Smetters, D and Majewska, A and Yuste, R, "Detecting action potentials in neuronal populations with calcium imaging.", Methods (San Diego, Calif.)  18, 2 (1999), pp. 215--221.

[55] Steiger, H J and Büttner-Ennever, J A, "Oculomotor nucleus afferents in the monkey demonstrated with horseradish peroxidase", Brain research  160, 1 (1979), pp. 1--15.

[56] Sümbül, Uygar and Song, Sen and McCulloch, Kyle and Becker, Michael and Lin, Bin and Sanes, Joshua R and Masland, Richa…, "A genetic and computational approach to structurally classify neuronal types.", Nature Communications  5 (2014), pp. 3512.

[57] Tapia, Juan Carlos and Kasthuri, Narayanan and Hayworth, Kenneth J and Schalek, Richard and Lichtman, Jeff W and Smith, Stephen…, "High-contrast en bloc staining of neuronal tissue for field emission scanning electron microscopy.", Nature Protocols  7, 2 (2012), pp. 193--206.

[58] van Alphen, A M and Stahl, J S and De Zeeuw, C I, "The dynamic characteristics of the mouse horizontal vestibulo-ocular and optokinetic response.", Brain research  890, 2 (2001), pp. 296--305.






  Figure legends

Figure1: Functional and structural imaging of integrator neurons. 

(A) (a) Top - Larval zebrafish schematic showing the region where 
functional imaging was performed (black box) located in the 
hindbrain.
Bottom - A single imaging plane showing neurons loaded with 
calcium indicator OGB-1. Identified integrator neurons are show 
in colored circles. Colors reflect the level of persistence of 
the neuron. Scale bar = 20μm
(b) Spontaneous eye movement (top, blue line) showing saccades 
(sharp vertical lines) and post-saccadic fixations (horizontal 
lines). Ipsilateral saccades are indicated by black arrows. 
Colored traces below are the changes in fluorescence from 
individual neurons in (a). Colors represent the persistence level 
of the neuron. Since integrator neurons have eye position 
thresholds, not all cells (green) fire throughout the eye 
position range observed here.
(c) Normalized fluorescence and firing rate of neurons in (a). 
Thick line shows the average, with shaded region showing the SEM. 
Dotted line is the exponential fit to determine persistence time 
constant, represented as \log_{2}\left(\tau\right).
(B) (Top) Serial-sections for electron microscopy were collected 
on a tape in an automated manner. (Bottom left) Overview image of 
single section. The region-of-interest that corresponding to the 
functionally imaged area was defined by black box for 
high-resolution imaging. (Bottom right) All such images were 
aligned to generate a 3D EM volume.
(C) Registration of light microscopic volume to electron 
microscopic volume is used to locate the neurons that were 
involved in the behavior. Red arrows indicate the same features 
in both LM and EM. Scale bar = 20μm 
(D) An example EM plane showing anatomical landmarks, Mauthner 
neuron (black star), Mi2 (red stars), Mi3 (blue stars) and Ca 
(green stars). Anatomical locations of all identified integrator 
neurons (colored circles) and all remaining cell bodies in the 
imaged EM volume (`\bullet' symbol). Colors of the integrator 
neurons correspond to the persistence time of the neuron. Lower 
panel is a distribution of all neurons along the medio-lateral 
axis with integrator neurons overlaid. Dotted lines (cyan) are 
the identified somata stripes S 1-3.

Figure2: Ultrastructural features of Integrator neurons. 
(A) Integrator neuron with ipsilaterally projecting axon (dark 
lines) with presynaptic (green circles) and dendrites (light 
lines) with postsynaptic (red circles) locations. Parts of the 
axon of this integrator neuron are loosely-myelinated. Insets 
shows axons with loose myelin (colored), arrows showing 
individual myelin sheaths. Open arrow head shows the location of 
axon initiation.
(B) Integrator neuron with ipsilateral projecting axon. Axon is 
studded with presynaptic sites that are clustered along neurite. 
Inset is a 3D reconstruction of axon termination zone with a 
large vesicle cloud (blue) with multiple post synaptic densities 
(yellow) opposed to the vesicles. Numbers correspond to EM insets 
showing the synapses. M - Mitochondria, V - Vesicles. Arrows show 
the synapses at those locations. 
(C) Integrator neuron with contralateral projecting axon. 
Putative contralateral axon emerges from somata and is engulfed 
by glial before crossing the midline. (EM insets at numbered 
locations G - Glia, A - Axon) Open arrowhead shows the axon 
initiation site. 
(D) Integrator neurons with only contralaterally projecting axon. 
Putative axon is engulfed by glia before crossing the midline.(EM 
insets at numbered locations G - Glia, A - Axon). Bottom EM panel 
shows primary cilium highlighted with yellow arrow. All the 
integrator somata in this volume give rise to a cilium, but it is 
shown for this neuron.

Figure3: Integrator neuron projection patterns and synaptic 
distribution.
(A) Colored panels show three views of reconstructed integrator 
neurons, grouped according to their axonal projection patterns. 
Left, 6 integrator neuron with ipsilateral projecting axons - 
ipsi-only group, pink background. Middle, 9 integrator neurons 
with midline crossing contralaterally projecting putative-axon – 
contra-only, orange background. Right, 6, integrator neurons with 
unknown axonal projection – unknown, blue background. Axons - 
dark line, dendrites - light lines, red circles - postsynaptic 
sites, green circles - presynaptic sites. 
(B) Box plot of the number of synapses in each group (Ipsi-only, 
Contra-only and unknown, L to R). Black line is the median (p=0.004
, Wilcoxn rank-sum test).
(C) Box plot of the Synaptic density for each group. Black lines 
are the medians.
(D) Normalized distribution of the synaptic pathlength. Red - 
postsynaptic sites, green - presynaptic sites. Black vertical 
lines, with adjoining numbers represent the means of the 
distribution.
(E) Box plots of the intersynaptic path length for all four 
groups. Open circles are outliers, not shown beyond 10\mu m..
(F) Axonal and dendritic diameter of all neurons in each of the 
four groups. Grey dots are averages for each neuron and black 
dots are averages per group. A - Axon, D - Dendrite.

Figure4: Integrator neurons organization and connectivity.
(A) Planar organization of ipsi (pink) and contra (orange) 
projecting neurons postsynaptic sites. Grid represents the best 
fit plane through the cloud of points for each group.
(B) (Top) Stratification profile of all ipsi-only group of 
neurons. Two side views show the stratification of the dendrites, 
presynaptic and postsynaptic sites along the dorso-ventral and 
medio-lateral axis. Dotted line represent the location of the 
somatic peaks that was computed in Figure 1.
(Bottom) Stratification profile of all contra-only group of 
neurons. 
(C) Three views of synaptically connected integrator neurons. 
Synapses from the ipsi-only group onto another neuron from 
ipsi-only group are in top left (black circles) and onto 
contra-only neurons are at bottom right. Black dots represent the 
location of the synapses, with insets showing the electron 
micrograph at two representative locations, colors in the inset 
are representative of the cells to which the synapses belong. 




  Star Methods Text

  Contact for reagent and resource sharing

For further information regarding the any resources and reagents 
please contact ashwinv@princeton.edu, sseung@princeton.edu

  Experimental model and subject details

All zebrafish larvae experimental procedures were approved by 
Weill Cornell Medical College's Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee. We used nacre mutant zebrafish larva, 6 days of age 
for all experiments.

  Method details

  Two-photon calcium imaging. 

A nacre mutant zebrafish larva, 6 days of age, was anesthetized 
in 100 mg/L tricaine-methanesulfonate (MS222, VWR TCT0941- 025G) 
for about 1 minute and then quickly mounted dorsal side up with 
droplets of 1.7% low temperature agarose (Sigma A0701-100G) on 
the lid of a 35mm petri dish containing a bed of hardened 1% 
agarose (Invitrogen 15510-027). The larva was then covered in 50 
mg/L MS222. The larva was bulk-loaded [10, 54] with calcium 
sensitive dye Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 AM (5 mM, in DMSO with 5% 
pluronic, Invitrogen, O-6807) by inserting a capillary through 
the dorsal skin surface over the lateral edge of the right side 
of the hindbrain just caudal to the cerebellum, at ~30^{0} 
decline relative to the dorsal surface. Following recovery, 
hindbrain of the animal was imaged at 790nm on predefined planes 
at 1 Hz. The imaging was performed unilaterally on three 
pre-defined planes \sim8\mu m apart, below the level of the 
Mauthner neuron. 

The integrator neurons were identified in a manner similar to a 
previously described method [46, 16]. Briefly, correlations for 
every pixel over a 5 min acquisition period was determined for 
eye position and eye velocity. A region-of-Interest (ROI) was 
then drawn over the pixels where the majority were correlated to 
one of these variables. The fluorescence was reported as change 
in fluorescence for each frame relative to the average 
fluorescence, divided by the average. Saccadic fluorescence 
traces were displayed over an 8 sec window starting 1 sec before 
the end of the saccade. The firing rates were computed over a 6 
second fixation period beginning 1 sec after the end of the 
saccade. The firing rates were computed by deconvolving the 
average fluorescent traces with a calcium impulse response 
function (CIRF) as described previously [45]. The integrator time 
constants were calculated by fitting an exponential function 
(Matlab ezfit) to to the firing rates. The time constants for the 
fits were capped at 100 sec.

  Serial section electron microscopy. 

The animal was immersed in a fixative mixture of 2% 
paraformaldehyde and 2.25% glutaraldehyde buffered in 65 mM 
cacodylate buffer. The skin over the hindbrain was removed for 
good ultrastructure preservation and homogeneous staining of the 
tissue. Then it was thoroughly washed in 0.1M cacodylate buffer 
with 4% sucrose before staining. The tissue was stained using a 
conventional ROTO procedure [57]. Briefly, the specimen was 
stained in 1% reduced osmium tetroxide with potassium 
ferrocyanide for 2 hr on ice. The tissue was then washed 4x 30 
min in 0.1M cacodylate buffer, also on ice. This was then 
followed by amplification in 1% sodium thiocarbohydroazide (TCH) 
for 15 min followed by 3x5 min washes in water and another round 
of incubation in 1% osmium tetroxide for 1 hr. The tissue was 
then washed 3x15 min in water and incubated with 1% aqueous 
uranyl acetate overnight. The following day the tissue was washed 
3x15 min in water and incubated for 30 min in Lead aspartate 
solution, followed by washing and dehydration with a series of 
ethanol washes, followed by propylene oxide (PO) washes. The 
tissue was then infiltrated in decreasing gradients of PO and 
EPON for 24 hrs and baked for 48 hrs at 60 C. Following 
hardening, the tissue block face was coarsely trimmed and a 
rectangular mesa was defined for serial sectioning. Care was 
taken to orient the specimen to permit sectioning along the 
horizontal axis. Serial sections from the above animal were 
collected approximately from the level of the Mauthner axon at a 
thickness of 45 nm. The serial sections were then adhered to a 
silicon wafer, using double sided carbon tape (TEDpella), the 
wafers were coated with a thin film of carbon to make them 
conductive. The serial sections were collected using the 
automatic tape-collecting ultramicrotome (ATUM) [22, 29]. Each 
wafer was imaged in a Zeiss Sigma field emitting scanning 
electron microscope in the backscattered electron mode using a 
custom software interface to collected the images [22]. For the 
high-resolution each section was imaged at a lateral resolution 
of 5nm/pixel in a region of interest that roughly corresponded 
with the area imaged on the light microscopic. The EM volume we 
imaged contained 15791 image tiles (8000\times8000 pixels each) 
or \sim10^{11} pixels. The imaged volume was 220\times112\times57\,\mu m^{3}
 (RC X ML X DV). 

  Registration of light microscope and electron microscope 
  volumes

The EM images were aligned using the TrakEM2 plugin in Fiji [13]. 
Briefly, individual images were imported into the TrakEM2 
framework and montaged using affine and elastic transforms. The 
images were then registered in z using a similar approach, where 
the first pass was performed using affine transforms, followed by 
elastic transforms. All the alignment was performed on a machine 
with 32 virtual cores and 120GB RAM.

To locate the cells that were involved in the integrator circuit, 
we first made use of the fact that gross morphological features 
including blood vessels and the mauthner axon were easily 
identified in both the LM and EM stacks. Once enough such 
features were identified in the LM stack, interpolated at EM step 
sizes, we located these same landmarks in the high-res EM stack. 
Each pair of landmarks (one from the LM volume and one from the 
EM volume) was then used to calculate a global affine transform 
that was applied to transform the LM volume to be overlaid on the 
EM volume using the TrakEM2 plugin in Fiji [13]. Following this 
first round of registration, we then identified 7 cells at 
different locations throughout the volume that were easily 
identified in both data sets and performed a second round of 
alignment. 

  Reconstructions

The reconstruction of the identified neurons was performed using 
the TrakEM2 plugin in Fiji/ImageJ. One expert (AV) traced all 
neurons and annotated all pre- and postsynaptic sites. A second 
expert (EA) identified locations at which the skeletons looked 
unusual (sharp turns or closely spaced branch points). EA 
reviewed the images at all of these locations (typically a few 
per neuron), and reached consensus with AV.A few locations were 
judged ambiguous in the sense that image defects made it 
impossible to interpret the locations with certainty. At such 
ambiguous locations, we erred on the side of incomplete tracing.

A second round of tracing was then carried out using a 
semi-automated, volume based reconstruction method similar to the 
`eyewire' platform (http://eyewire.org). This process involved 
semiautomatic reconstruction of neurons with two tracers (not the 
authors), where the second tracer was able to view the first 
tracers reconstructions. A third expert tracer (A.V) reviewed all 
sites where the first two tracers differed to provide consensus. 
The final trace included all those neurites where the majority 
agreed. This ensured that each cell was covered by at least 2 
tracers. This semi-automated process revealed that the axon of 
one cell was previously under-reconstructed and another dendrite 
from a different cell was over-reconstructed. The remaining 20/22 
cells remained the same between both methods. 

Having real-time volume based tracing provides shape based 
context to tracers. This is useful to detect error. For example 
if a neurite is falsely merged it is often the case that its 
diameter is different as compared to the neurite being 
reconstructed. Similarly, at locations where the neurites are 
very thin, we can often reconstruct all the neurites abutting the 
neurite being traced to eliminate false positives, 

Since the section thickness was 45nm, neurites that were parallel 
to the cutting plane were sometimes hard to follow during 
reconstruction. This typically leads to problems when tracing 
very thin neurites (typically axons) that can be hard to follow. 
In such instances is it useful to keep track of internal 
organelles and other cues such as contrast to eliminate ambiguous 
locations. After such techniques are applied, the end result is 
that every cell has at most one or two truly ambiguous locations. 
The ambiguity might be caused by a thin neurite parallel to the 
sectioning plane, or deteriorated ultrastructure (due to 
electroporation, poor fixation, or possibly developmental pruning 
of axons). In truly ambiguous locations, we err on the side of 
undertracing. 

The skeletonized tree structure was exported from TrakEM2 as 
*.swc files. These trees were then imported into Matlab using 
custom scripts to import .swc files as trees. For the comparison 
of EM traces with LM traces, the LM traces were traced using the 
Simple Neurite Tracer [39] plugin in Fiji, and exported as *.swc 
file. In total, we reconstructed 9.29 mm of neurite (2.45 mm of 
axonal length and 6.84 mm of dendritic length). 

  Quantification and Statistical Analysis

All tree lengths are reported as pathlengths unless noted 
otherwise. Similarly, all lengths to a pre- or postsynaptic site 
are reported as pathlengths. We defined the axon initiation site 
as the parent node of the first presynaptic site. All neurites 
that are not axonal are defined as dendritic. All nodes of the 
tree were thus divided as axonal nodes or dendritic nodes. 
Pathlengths were generated for a tree over all axonal nodes or 
all dendritic nodes, and the length of the tree was the sum of 
all axonal length and dendritic length. A collateral was defined 
as all those segments of an axon, that emerged from the central 
axonal shaft. All axonal nodes were divided into collateral and 
non-collateral nodes. The completeness of cells was decided based 
on the number of neurites that exited the cells, the fewer that 
exited, the more complete the cell,

The diameter of the axon and dendrites for each tree was 
generated by drawing a line segment along the cross-section at 
random locations along the tree. Many such line segments were 
drawn across the entire extent of the tree. The values are 
reported as a mean across all dendrites and axons. 

Arbor densities of the dendrites was computed by projecting all 
the axonal or dendritic nodes along the desired plane and 
reported in a normalized scale. Arbor volumes were computed using 
the Matlab function convhull. To infer the neurotransmitter 
identity from the stripe organization of the cell bodies, we 
annotated the location of all the cell bodies from a 
low-resolution stack. The cell density was then computed by 
projecting all the cells along the desired axis. This process 
picked out the peaks that were visible in the EM images. The 
location of a stripe was defined as the local peak that emerged 
from the cell density projecting analysis. The planar 
organization of the postsynapses and presynapses were fit to a 
plane using the planefit function, available on the Matlab 
central repository. 

To locate the border between r6 and r7 we followed a similar 
approach that was performed previous using light microscopic 
imaging and the expression of the hox genes [40, 16, 35]. Briefly 
reticulospinal cells were identified based on the ultrastructure, 
that was very different form the remaining cells in the area. 
These cells were rich in mitochondria and gave rise to a large 
myelinated axon that joined the medial longitudinal fasciculus. 
We fit a plane to the reticulospinal neurons, and identified a 
point on this plane that bisected Mi3 neuron located in r6 and Ca 
neuron located in r7. The tilt of this border from previous 
studies was observed to be 0.37 based on transgene expression 
patterns. This line that bisected the locations of Mi3 and Ca was 
moved 0.37\mu m caudally for every micron ventrally based on [16, 35]
. The resulting line is where we differentiate the border of r6 
and r7.

  Data and Software availability

All reconstructed neuron traces will be uploaded to the neuromorpho.org
 repository for download. The traces can be imported and analyzed 
using the Matlab tool box for analysis, treestoolbox.org.

  Key Resources Table


+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
|  Reagent or Resources    |  Source    |                Identifier                |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                Experimental Model                                |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
| Zebrafish: nacre(mitfa)  |   [38]     | ZIRC (https://zfin.org/ZDB-ALT-010919-2) |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                    Chemicals                                     |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
|     All EM reagents      | EMSdiasum  |                   N/A                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                             Software and algorithms                              |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
|  Importing *.swc files   |   [56]     |                   N/A                    |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
|         TrakEM2          |   [13]     |                   N/A                    |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
| Integrator firing rates  |   [45]     |                   N/A                    |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
|       WaferMapper        |   [22]     |                   N/A                    |
+--------------------------+------------+------------------------------------------+


